["If I Had A Heart" playing]
♪ More, give me more
Give me more ♪
♪ If I had a heart
I could love you ♪
♪ If I had a voice
I would sing ♪
♪ After the night
When I wake up ♪
♪ I'll see
What tomorrow brings ♪
[vocalizing]
♪ If I had a voice
I would sing ♪
[gasping]
[breathing heavily]
[sobs]
Lagertha.
[sobbing]
Who killed her?
[guard] No one knows,
Lord Ubbe.
What was she doing here?
On her own with nobody?
Poor Lagertha.
[sniffs]
Where's Gunnhild?
My children.
Were her dreams true?
You don't know.
No, no! I have to go.
I have to find out.
[sobs]
Go and help her.
Where is my brother, hmm?
Where is Hvitserk?
Go and find him.
Yes, my Lord Ubbe.
I need him.
[door closes]
You killed my mother.
But I can still weep
for Lagertha the shield-maiden.
[panting]
What is it?
[gasps]
We have to get to Kattegat.
[grunts]
-[panting]
-[thunder rumbling]
I have to get to Kattegat.
[grunts]
[rats squeaking]
[indistinct shouting]
We can't find Hvitserk.
He doesn't seem
to be in Kattegat.
Keep looking.
I'll find him.
Torvi told me that you're
in love with Bjorn.
I may be.
I hope that doesn't mean
you wish Queen Gunnhild ill?
Of course not.
I respect her.
I want her
to be safe and well.
She is carrying
Bjorn's child.
She is carrying the child
of the man I love.
[sighs]
[man coughing]
[coughing continues]
[gasps]
Where's Hvitserk?
I don't know.
[groans]
I haven't seen him all day.
[indistinct talking]
[horn blaring]
King Harald.
I bless you
all my service and allegiance
as the gods see fit.
I'm grateful, King Hakon.
May Norway
and our people prosper.
You've made many promises.
I trust you will keep them.
My dear King Olaf.
I suppose you have come
to pledge your allegiance.
It was not well done.
It was not as you arranged.
Still, I am King now.
King of Norway.
And you owe me allegiance.
I cannot.
What is so difficult
for you, old man?
It was a genuine vote.
I won.
I wanted Bjorn
to be the first King
of Norway.
[inhales]
There were many
who thought differently.
They didn't want Bjorn.
It was too obvious
for them to vote for Bjorn.
They wanted someone
who represented
ordinary people.
And that's why
they voted for me...
but you still
won't accept it.
No.
I won't accept it.
It is a tragedy.
[chuckles]
I must do to you
what you did to me, Olaf.
I must throw you into prison
until you see the error
of your ways.
Or until you die.
I don't mind either way.
Let me be!
I will walk to eternity
in my own shoes.
Hmm.
[singing in Old Norse]
So, it was always the truth
that the death of Ragnar
would bring calamities
beyond imagining.
I only see things.
I don't make them.
I fore-suffer them,
lying in the damp earth
beneath these walls.
You told Lagertha
that she would be
killed by a son of Ragnar.
I say only what I see,
and I know that humankind
cannot bear too much reality.
Was it Ivar?
It was Ivar...
and yet it was not Ivar.
Ivar is guilty and innocent
at the same time.
I need to know.
You will know.
And then you will wish
that you did not know.
Like Hali...
we are all on our way
to Valhalla.
Hali?
[breathing heavily]
No!
No, Torvi.
Hali is dead.
Farewell, Hali.
Farewell, my son.
The gods decided to take you
to themselves
before I was ready.
But at least you will
soon be with Lagertha again,
in the Halls of the Aesir.
Sweet Hali...
you are not gone because you
will always be in our hearts.
And we love you.
Torvi.
You are wounded.
Can there be no end
to this grief?
Lagertha?
She reached Kattegat.
But then someone killed her.
You know why she wanted
so badly to go to Kattegat?
[breathing heavily]
She wanted to tell you
that we fought and defeated
White Hair and his bandits.
She wanted you to know
the courage of your son.
You should be so proud.
[exhales]
Lagertha must have
a great funeral.
She meant so much
to so many.
And I will return for it.
No, you are
still too weak.
I was weak when
I did not go back to
Kattegat with Lagertha.
Perhaps I could
have saved her life.
I will not be weak now,
when we say goodbye to her.
[cries]
[Asa] Don't cry.
[sobbing]
We leave for
Kattegat tomorrow.
[birds chirping]
[shivering]
[whimpering]
[breathing heavily]
Hvitserk.
[blowing]
Please live, Hvitserk.
[weeping]
[overlapping chatter]
[panting]
[Oleg chuckles] Ivar.
Warm yourself.
Have something
strong to drink.
There is nothing to do
except look forward
to the spring.
[inhales]
But life goes on.
We must endure the winter.
Still, we must
amuse ourselves.
I want to skate
on frozen ponds.
I want to cut
the throat of the first pig.
And I want to
hang the mistletoe
for the Christ-Mass.
And I want to bathe naked
in a hot spring...
with hot steam rising,
but ice and snow
all around.
And my breath
will be a geyser,
and my soul
will bathe there
and slake its thirst.
And you, dear Ivar,
the future King
of all Scandinavia...
what would you like?
I would like to walk.
[chuckling]
That would be a miracle.
I've heard that
your God performs miracles.
Jesus Christ...
raised a man
from the dead.
He made a lame man walk.
He fed a thousand people
with just a few
loaves and fishes.
I don't think it's too much
to ask of Him to cure
a simple cripple, is it?
We will all pray
for that miracle,
Ivar the Boneless.
What about you,
Prince Oleg?
What is it that
amuses you?
you really want?
As usual,
I want the impossible.
I want to go back
into my mother's womb.
I want to float there...
in that small,
limitless universe...
among the stars.
With no beginning, no end.
Waiting for the new world
to begin.
I know we have
all been here before.
We're constantly reborn.
It's what I believe.
Don't you, Ivar?
Yes.
That's also what I believe.
[indistinct shouting]
[Asa] Ubbe!
Asa!
Oh, sweetheart.
You are safe.
But Hali is dead.
I know.
But what a brave warrior
he was.
I am certain that he is
on his way to Valhalla.
I am so sorry.
I should have let you go.
I loved him.
You must know that.
I know.
We all did.
Now he's waiting
for Lagertha.
This must be
a magnificent funeral.
Greater than anything else
in the memory of our folk.
Your mistress,
the famous shield-maiden
Lagertha, is dead.
But we cannot let her
sail to Valhalla alone.
Someone must serve her
in the next world
and accompany her there.
I do not want to sacrifice
a slave who might be unwilling
to perform these sacred duties.
I believe it must be done
willingly and joyfully,
and that one of you is fated
to be that person.
Who would willingly
sacrifice themselves
to go with Lagertha?
[al] I will!
[Torvi] I will.
I will go with her.
[crowd murmuring]
I cannot allow it, Torvi.
You are carrying a child.
The child has not agreed
to go to the next world
with Lagertha.
It must be one of you,
and the gods have
already made their choice.
Let them show us.
[cawing]
What is your name?
Gyda.
I was named
after Lagertha's daughter,
who died in a plague
when she was young.
My mother said my fate
would always be linked
to Lagertha.
Are you happy, Gyda?
How could you ask?
To be chosen by the gods.
Who would not be happy?
[cheers and applause]
[man 1] Well done!
[man 2] Spices! Come pick
your spices from me!
I have a message for you,
Ivar the Boneless.
Prince Dir sends you greetings.
He is safe, well,
and restored.
But, for the time being,
still in hiding.
However, he hopes
that one day
he will be strong enough
to help you achieve
your ambition...
which is also his ambition.
[cheers and applause]
He sends you this cross...
by which you will know him,
and is a token
of his enduring friendship.
Now, I must leave.
Please do not turn
or watch me go.
[man laughing]
[man] Please,
come and help me.
I need some help holding this.
Who was that?
He didn't tell me his name.
But he told me
that Prince Dir is safe
and that he is prepared
to help us when the time
has come.
Then he is an angel
sent from God.
You're right.
An angel sent from the gods.
He hasn't spoken.
He hardly eats.
Sometimes he cries out
in his sleep.
What does he say?
[Amma]
Nothing that makes any sense.
[Ubbe] Brother.
Hvitserk!
Talk to me.
[Ubbe] Why did you
go into the forest?
Did you want to die, huh?
Why would you want to die?
Lagertha's dead!
Did you know
Lagertha was dead?
I... I need to sleep.
Talk to me.
I don't want to talk.
I want to sleep.
[choral singing]
[indistinct chatter]
Behold, I see my mistress,
seated in paradise.
Paradise is beautiful
and green.
And with her
are shield-maidens.
She calls me.
Take me to her.
[viking] Gyda, beloved
of the gods,
you must drink
to your mistress,
and in honor
of Frey and Freya.
[Gyda] I will gladly drink.
I will drink
to my mistress, Lagertha.
And to Frey and Freya,
and to all the gods
gathered here today.
We must prepare you
so you are ready to be received
in Valhalla by the gods.
[woman] Gyda.
You are Gyda.
You have declared yourself
a willing sacrifice.
You wish to accompany
your mistress
to the other world.
Yes.
Then you know
who I am.
I am called
the Angel of Death.
Yes. I know.
I can kill you with a knife.
Or a cord around your neck.
Which would you prefer?
A knife.
Thank you.
Are you afraid?
No.
I know that death is
not the end.
So, I'm not afraid.
The Valkyries
will ride alongside
and guide you to Valhalla.
Look at my eyes.
Look!
[gasps and shrieks]
[exhales]
Whoo!
[Katia sighs]
Now are you happy,
my love?
Of course.
This was my dream,
and you made it come true.
This was
the simplest dream of all.
But the rest will follow.
You understand, don't you?
It's only the beginning.
[chuckles]
[both laugh]
It's only the beginning!
-[cheering]
-[drumming]
[drumming and cheering stops]
Farewell, Lagertha,
Queen of Kattegat,
Mother of Norway.
May the gods
love and keep you...
and may your reunion
with Ragnar be joyful,
noisy
and filled with love.
Farewell, Lagertha...
my shield, my hero.
One day we shall meet again
in the Halls of the Aesir,
and you will teach me
once more how to fight
as a woman
and how to prevail.
For women always prevail.
That is what you taught me.
And that is the truth.
I love you.
There is really nothing else
to say, Lagertha.
I know you will
look after my boys,
Hali and Guthrum.
There will be so much
for you to do...
but don't forget them.
Hali is always hungry.
I must live in the world
without you.
[sobs] But wherever I go,
you will go with me...
and give me courage
and hope.
Goodbye, Grandmother.
Don't worry. The Valkyries
will ride alongside
and guide you to Valhalla.
[sheep bleating]
What is it?
The world has changed.
I think I know.
But I don't want to know.
[indistinct murmurs]
Bjorn.
You don't need
to tell me, Ubbe.
I already know.
My mother is dead.
[sighs]
And nothing will ever
be the same again.
[Bjorn exhales]
[sighs]
I hoped the day
would never come...
when I had to bid you farewell.
[Bjorn] You were always
my strength...
my guide.
You taught me to go on,
no matter what.
You taught me not to be afraid.
And now I see that,
like me...
the earth itself is
unwilling to let you go.
But the gods call you home.
They eagerly await
your arrival in Valhalla...
as does my father.
I wish I could be there...
at your reunion, secretly,
in Odin's glittering,
gold-shielded hall,
surrounded by all the gods.
You are already a legend.
The greatest shield-maiden
of all time.
A hero to thousands
of women.
But, to me, you will
always be my mother...
who bore me...
who raised me...
who protected
and fought for me.
And I swear,
I will fight for you now!
I did not protect you in life,
but I can punish
your murderer after it.
Farewell.
I have loved you more than
I have loved any other.
[inhales deeply]
Farewell, Lagertha.
Farewell.
I love you.
I will miss you.
I will avenge you.
[sighs]
[singing in Norse]
[weeping]
[exhales]
[woman speaking Old Norse]
[sighs]
[shield-maiden] Draw!
Loose!
Pull!
[shouting indistinctly]
[horse neighing]
[Lagertha] In my dreams,
we are always together.
[music playing]